Welcome everyone. Thank you. Welcome everyone. Thank you again. We are going to continue with the
teachings of the great teacher, Buddha Shatyaman.
Of course, he is a delegate that came from the Dunyo Lingpa, but it is his Buddha Shatyaman's
teachings.
The greatest teacher, a variety of the teachings that lead to every single living in life as did in
the contrast of the joy and appreciation and respect and the non-volence and peaceful way to
discover the innate nature come out of the difficult challenges, the troubles of the samsara.
Everyone has that status, so that's what the greatest teachers give, a lot of teachings and all
that.
So this time we are following the highest level of the mostly dirty teaching, how to discover our
innate nature.
So that means how to become the Buddha. Instantly, how to become the Buddha.
That's the really the kazokhi teaching, is there and simple, according to it, is easy, is very,
very direct.
It won't take a long time to reach enlightenment or to become the Buddha. Everyone follows the
instructions.
Generally, in the teachings said, the Buddha gives three different levels of teachings.
Those are, kind of like, to discover or to become the Buddha, long way and short way and very short
ways, those three different ways.
Long way is kozayana, kozayana teaching. It takes a long time with the core commitment, the joyful
effort, those are all we need.
No matter what you are practicing, and the bodhicitta, intention, all that, and then the kozayana
teaching, it will take three coneless eons to become the Buddha.
So it's a long process, but however, even it's a long process, it's not boring, it's not trying.
It's a kozayana teaching, really, it is so joyful, so uplifting, advancing, moving forward.
For that reason, great Master Shanti Deva said, by the mandatory activities, your physical
condition, government condition will be perfect, perfect.
So there is no problem of physical troubles. But practicing of the wisdom, your mind will be so
calm, peace and happy.
So therefore, who will be bold to stay in the samsara? And who will try?
Because you are perfectly fine with healthy level, physical level, and mental level, you are
perfect, and joyful, and happy.
So why? That's why really, even it's a long time, but it is a very uplifting journey that what the
teaching is, because it is touching to the inner core of our own true beings.
And also as well as helping to the others to discover the inner core as natures.
And then, longer one, then the shorter one is, for example, outer than the teachings.
Outer than the teachings, according to teaching, it takes the shortest one is three lifetimes, or
seven lifetimes, sixteen lifetimes.
Those are in the teachings said. So it is like, it is long way, so that means, fifteen, seven, and
three lifetimes, it takes.
But this quickest way, zokki teaching, or the inner sattara, particularly zokki teaching, it can
reach enlightenment within these single lifetimes.
And we follow the instruction, and according to the teachings, it really teaches.
Again, it is a very quick part. Once you reach enlightenment, or once you become the Buddha, this
is not just, you can't then completely retire, it's not.
When you become the Buddha, you're going to benefit, help to all living beings.
Very continuations, continuations, pervasive without any efforts. Effort, or without any heartache
ts, those are the continuations, pervasive without any effort.
You're going to benefit for all living beings. So this, among those like levels, we are in this
really very powerful, special teaching, yet it's so simple, and so direct, as with what we said.
The other day, the great master said, I mean, what we said is not something that we are talking, or
I'm talking that.
I'm just trying to follow the exact instructions of the great lineage masters, and the teachings,
as it's mentioned.
So I said, yesterday, I am repeating that, I'm echoing of those great teachings, that once you
discover your inner nature,
discover and identify our own inner nature, that is our own nature, discover.
Once we discover that inner nature, then maintaining that, that's the meditation.
Maintaining, keeping up that, with those, again, some instructions, those are unshakable.
Unshakable, physical, body, unshakable senses, unshakable mind, or movable, not moving the physical
.
So that means, whatever posture you are, or we are, trying to stay there, not just moving so many
times.
Relax, that means relaxing the body, relaxing the speech, relaxing the senses.
What that means senses, eye, ear, nose, tongue, body, keeping calm, not kind of regulating, trying
these and that things,
and that stay calm and relaxed, that's called unmovable, or movable, e-movable, e-movable.
And with that, then, no, without any effort, sorry, then liberating.
Let it come, let it go. What that means?
Our thought will not stay, even we stay. Even we are calm and physical, thought will not stay.
This thought is what? According to Dzokhi teaching, it's expression,
express of the energy of the Dharma Gaya, energy of the enlightened mind.
Therefore, let it come, don't block, not trying to stop,
preventing the power and the energy of the Dharma Gaya is not correct.
Let me block it. Block it, that means regulating.
Regulating thought is ultimately duality. So, let it come, let it go.
What that means? Let it go. Let it go means don't hold, not holding.
By hold who? By our thought. Again, hold means not just hold that thought,
but try chasing the thought, imaginary thought.
Kind of all thought comes and we start chasing each of the thoughts, then we are deluded.
Those are known as reach, reach of the dualities, and we chase thoughts.
There is endless, there is no ending.
That thought, chasing thought is samsara.
Even though we are sitting in beautiful positions, beautiful kind of everything quite good,
we know that when we start chasing our thoughts, when it comes, and then chase thoughts.
That is known as, then we are disqualifying our practices.
We are not letting it go. You are holding onto that analyzer, whatever you are doing.
Small thoughts, subtle thoughts, very counter-attainy thoughts,
but we are distracted from the will, from the meditation.
So, therefore, let it go, or liberating, self-liberating in the teaching state.
You don't have to bring other tools to liberate anything out here.
We don't need any other technical skills.
Rapa is a fool, he cooked. It has all tools. Really, it has all tools.
So, this time, the most important one is self-liberating.
In the debate, it is called 'rangro', in the Dzokhi teachings, 'rangro'.
Let, come, let it go. Those are simple words used in the country, too.
That is really liberating. That means that it goes.
There is no more thinking. Earth's birds flying in the sky,
there is no trace of the feet, front, or the wings, or the body, at all.
This means a writing code is the energy of the Dharmakaya,
but when you let it go, there is no trace.
No shadows or anything. This cane is gone.
But you continue, or we continue, we continue maintaining
in the state space of the Dharmakaya.
That means we are returning back to the home, sweet home,
where we really belong.
We are returning from the duality world to the calm and peaceful,
vastness, infinite states.
How wonderful. How beautiful.
And that is there, in the way we are going to relax.
Already speaking, but then relax.
Don't make any effort to value that.
Relax your body, relax your speech, or wind, breathing.
Relax your mind.
Don't make any effort trying to do these things, anything.
We are alternating the nature's discipline, and dualities, and relax.
That is really with me.
Then we are really advancing, we are flying.
We are flying the vast space of Dharmakayas.
Exploring the horizon, there is no boundaries that we are really exploring.
We reach the vastness.
When you become master of that realization, what is the teaching?
Sky yogis, sky yoginis.
That means sky yogi in the sky.
There is no blockage of the dualities, blocking anything.
It is pervasive, panoramic view, view of the natural way things are.
So that is what this really teaching is.
Again, so we continue to follow with that.
But that is our practice, the meditation.
During this time, all the time, all the time,
you remember those are the same point of the teaching,
what really introduced in those greatest master lineages, really.
High light to exactly pointing out the skills and techniques and methods,
how to discover the nature of the Buddha.
Teaching, that is what is so with that.
And now to do that, again, continue to see what in the teaching said,
with all the observations, joy and appreciation.
That is so important.
We are going to practice meditation and practice,
listen to the teaching and observe the teaching with joy, with appreciation,
with grateful, with graceful, thankful.
And what in the teaching said, to thankful, to do we have the Buddha nature.
How wonderful.
We are not worthless.
We are not just insignificant.
Truly we are the bright light, stars,
in this vastness of the dharmakaya or the space,
or the space, dharmakaya space, or dharmadattu space.
How wonderful, how beautiful.
We have Buddha nature.
That is the cause to become the Buddha.
Buddha Kya Kya Muni had that cause and he followed,
continue for that pursuit and explore and discover that and become Buddha.
And all the Bodhisattvas, same thing.
And all the Buddhas, the past Buddhas, same thing.
In the future Buddhas, same thing.
Now Buddhas, so many Buddhas in the different pure realms,
or the different universes, according to the teaching.
Same thing.
We have same nature.
How wonderful.
How beautiful.
Feel happy in the joy.
Really.
Not just only we have the cause, cause of that video potential,
but we have every opportunity, every opportunity.
What in the teaching said?
We have the perfect best, B-A-S-E, best.
What that best?
Eighteen endowments.
Eighteen endowments, perfect.
Eighteen endowments is not casual,
it has need, love, cause and courage, two of them.
And that also included, we have the perfect best of the mental mind too.
Even though just have kind of beautiful form, the body and everything,
but our mind is turned the complete opposite direction.
We are from the Dharma.
Then it doesn't work.
So that means we have the perfect physical situation
and the perfect mental situation
that line up to discover our Buddha nature and Buddha.
How wonderful.
How beautiful.
In this world, there are so many human populations.
They say it's glory that.
But how many among that people?
How many people are really thinking?
And usually that's the perfect risk.
To benefit one's heart, to benefit all the beings.
In the context of love, kindness, compassion, non-lawless,
how many people do?
And among that, we think that we have some quite good qualities.
It's not something we feel arrogance in.
Kind of like that.
But we should be happy.
We shouldn't be depressed and boring and kind of bold.
That we're really taking good meaning for our lives.
We're using this operation.
Large operation potentials.
Then not just only that we have all those basis,
but we have lineage teachings.
Lineage teaching and how many of those people
have the opportunity to meet so many great qualified masters?
One after another.
Really.
Those are the guidance who assures us
to help, to discover, to bring the maturity of our Mother Nature.
Nature.
So we are, we are, help so many of those remarks.
Not just only we met the lineage masters,
but we also received so many teachings.
Nugget teaching, variety teachings.
Really we reached this.
So that means we got all the, okay,
situation and circumstance are very perfectly beautiful ways.
Therefore, we should be happy in joy,
have courage and commitment.
You did something we do purpose.
To propose that to discover and help to one's own self
and as well as others.
Those are the teachings that joy is so important.
Appreciations.
And along with that also reflecting four renowned session thoughts
that we all know.
You practice Mundu.
This is not renunciation practice.
It is a Mundu practice.
But it is always in the teachings said,
every session every day of like that is for renunciation thoughts.
It will, what we will make.
It will make our heart more supple, more tender.
We become more practical.
This will help to open our sense, sensible.
We become, it will be more common sense in our heart and mind.
It is four renowned sessions.
Also, you know, a precious body.
Precious body, impermanent.
Cause and effect are inevitable.
And Samsara has challenges and difficulties.
Those are just basic things, basic general things.
Things, but it is true.
It's not just a talking Buddhism.
It's a struggle.
But after we go through this, we have that.
So reflecting things is what makes more practical ourself.
More sensible as I said.
More really we will use our life very more perfectly, beautiful.
Not going to kind of do so many things.
That unnecessary, that not going to benefit ourself to the others.
Or maybe even hurting one's own self and hurting others.
We won't do too many things.
And therefore, it is those all good.
With this, and then, suggest what is the motivation of the bodhijara.
And the level of the bodhijara for all the sentient beings.
When we are starting teaching, we should have bodhijara.
When we are contemplating on the teaching, we should have the bodhijara.
We should, when we are meditating, we start with the bodhijara.
Bodhijara is a low in kindness, compassion, kindness for all the sentient beings.
Those are the central columns of the practices.
We shouldn't miss.
We shouldn't kind of ignore that.
We do it like, oh, bodhijara, always they kind of talk bodhijara, bodhijara.
Always talk to Joe and appreciate everything.
Always just kind of formulate again, same thing.
If we have that attitude, that means we are not feeling precious.
We are not really precious. We are not taking to the heart.
Those are the fundamental.
We have no thought in the heart and the mind.
Read it, then it will make practice so powerful, more fresh.
It will make more fresh.
Practice it with God.
At the beginning time, many times we have so much excitement,
joy and appreciation and devotion.
All those are siblings.
But as we go in the path and practice it for a long time,
then it's kind of almost getting dimmer, dimmer.
Let's put the dimmer.
Will you put this dim now?
They are going home and gone.
They know most of going pathway. Why?
Because these basic things are missing.
Joy and appreciation, poor renunciation, and bodhijara.
Really, we are kind of feel, oh, this is just casual.
Not casual. It is center. It is foundation.
It is a goal.
It is like in the food, what do we call it?
They call it fiber.
F-I-B-E-R, fiber.
They are notations.
Notations.
Really, it is multiple notations.
Every message goes, even in teaching,
even if you practice zookin, it becomes hollow.
Shallow.
It is non-notations.
Non-notations.
It is just kind of senseless or empty.
Empty.
And then we become dimmer, center.
Because then our teaching, dharma, zookin,
is not mended with heart, and then become more teaching,
more practices.
That means we talk, oh, we are practicing zookin.
We are practicing this, but only by mouth.
Not really by heart.
In order to do that, in order to avoid that,
then really to activate this every day.
This is our practice.
That is the meditation.
Even if we have a house or a building,
we have to maintain that.
And now one time, we have to do everything,
and then go, no, we have to keep maintaining,
and taking care of that.
That really brings the growth.
So those all in the teaching said,
and with that, I cannot go into it.
Everything is seen as a mandala of the Buddhas,
those pure vegans.
We are talking in this field.
Yesterday, we spoke of the pure vegans,
and this pure vegans is really the reality of nature,
according to the teaching.
So the pure vegans of the three kaya,
dharma kaya, sambho kaya,
and makaya realizations.
So those are understanding,
and now we go to the teaching.